#3 Creating contribution guide (#26)
SuperLesson/SuperLesson: CONTRIBUTING.md

# How to contribute to Super Lesson?

We are really glad you are reading this, because we need volunteer contributors to help this project come to fruition.

## Did you find a bug?

* Ensure the bug was not already reported* by searching on GitHub under [Issues](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/issues)
* If you are unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, [open a new one on GitHub](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md).
Be sure to include a *concise title* and a *clear description*, and be as thorough as possible. Also, include a *test case* demonstrating the unexpected behavior.

## Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?

To add a new feature, you must follow the next steps:

* *Fork* the repository (only for external users)

> * Create a [*feature request*](CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-policy)

Reviewer: This should come first. The user should only fork if they already have something to work on.

I'd separate the instructions for contributions to make this especially clear.

* Create a [*branch*](CONTRIBUTING.md#branch-policy)
* Follow the [*commits*](CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-policy) policy
* Submit [*Pull Request*](CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests-policy)

## Issue Policy

To create an issue, the [Issue Template](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md) must be followed.

## Branch Policy

### *main*

The *main* branch is the production branch where the stable version of the project resides. It will be locked for commits and pushes.
Please refer to the merge policy in the [Merges to *main*](CONTRIBUTING.md#merge-to-main) section.

> Veja a política de merges no tópico .

Reviewer: Oops, this line again. Please remove it.

### Feature Branch

Feature development branches will be created from the *main* branch.

## Commit Policy

* To commit messages use imperative voice
* Descriptions detail WHAT and WHY, but never HOW (that's on code!)
* Reference issues and commits respectively with

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```raw
```

    Closes: #123
    Fixes: abc0304 ("Commit message here")
    ```
    as necessary.
* Use git's standards for message length, 50 characters on the message and 72 on the description.

> 

Reviewer: Nit: double empty lines.

To ensure that both contributors are included in the GitHub commit graph, include the `Co-authored-by:` statement in the message:

> ```

Reviewer: nit: ditto.

```suggestion
```raw
```

Creating contributing guide

Co-authored-by: autor 1 <autor1@gmail.com>

> Co-authored-by: Autor 2 <autor2@gmail.com>

Reviewer: nit: I wouldn't use a real domain for these example emails.

```

## Pull Requests Policy

Pull requests should be made to the main branch. The pull request's description must include a clear description of what was done.

> Please follow to the [Pull Request Template](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/pull_request_template.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please follow the [Pull Request Template](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/pull_request_template.md).
```

### Code Review

One or more team members who did not participate in the modifications must conduct the code review. After the code review approval by the team members, it is possible to accept the PullRequest.

> 

Reviewer: Nit: ditto.

# How to contribute to Super Lesson?

We are really glad you are reading this, because we need volunteer contributors to help this project come to fruition.

> ### Did you find a bug?

Reviewer: Please use only `##` in section headers.

Edit: actually, apart from the first header (title, just above), remove a `#` from all the others.

* *Ensure the bug was not already reported* by searching on GitHub under [Issues](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/issues)
* If you are unable to find an open issue addressing the problem, [open a new one on GitHub](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md).

> Be sure to include a *title and clear description*, as much relevant information as possible, and a *code sample* or an *executable test case* demonstrating the expected behavior that is not occurring.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be sure to include a *concise title* and a *clear description*, and be as thorough as possible. Also, include a *test case* demonstrating the unexpected behavior.
```

I don't think it makes sense to mention code samples, as we're not providing a library.

### Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?

To add a new feature, you must follow the next steps:

* *Fork* the repository (only for external users)
* Create [*issues*](CONTRIBUTING.md#issue-policy)
* Create [*branchs*](CONTRIBUTING.md#branch-policy)
* Follow the [*commits*](CONTRIBUTING.md#commit-policy) policy
* Submit [*Pull Request*](CONTRIBUTING.md#pull-requests-policy)

### Issue Policy
Issues must have a title, description, at least one assigned subscriber, labels, and a milestone (the sprint that should be completed).

> To create an issue, the [Issue Template](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/feature_request.md) must be followed.

Reviewer: Most of this info is not necessary in here. Also, most people will voluntarily follow the template...

### Branch Policy

#### *main*

The *main* branch is the production branch where the stable version of the project resides. It will be locked for commits and pushes. 
Please refer to the merge policy in the [Merges to *main*](CONTRIBUTING.md#merge-to-main) section.
Veja a política de merges no tópico .

#### Branch Name  

> Feature development branches will be created from the *main* branch using the standard nomenclature `x_issue_name`, where `x` represents the issue tracking code.

Reviewer: TBH I feel this whole section is unnecessary. External contributors (i.e. the ones addressed in this file) couldn't care less about such details. Let's keep this private.

Author: I understand that since our last meeting, it has been decided that this plan will not be put into action. I will remove it.

### Commit Policy

The relevant issue must be referenced in the commit message by adding `#<issue_number>`.

For example:

```
#3 Creating contribution guide
```

**Note: By default, the # character defines a comment line in the commit message file. To resolve this issue, use the following command:**
```
git config --local core.commentChar '!'
```
To ensure that both contributors are included in the GitHub commit graph, include the `Co-authored-by:` statement in the message:

```
#3 Creating contribution guide

Co-authored-by: autor 1 <autor1@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Autor 2 <autor2@gmail.com>

```

For commits that conclude the resolution of an issue, you should begin the commit message with Fix `#<issue_number> <message>` so that the issue is [automatically closed](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/) when merged into the main branch.

Example commit message:

```
Fix #3 Finishing contributing guide
```

For commits that include a small change in an issue that has already been resolved, you should start the commit message with `HOTFIX #<issue_number> <message>`.

Example commit message:
```
HOTFIX #5 Update contributing guide

> ```

Reviewer: As discussed, we could actually refer to standard OSS contributing guides, that specify:
- Commit messages use imperative voice
- Descriptions detail WHAT and WHY, but never HOW (that's on code!)
- Reference issues and commits respectively with
  ```
  Closes: #123
  Fixes: abc0304 ("Commit message here")
  ```
  as necessary.
- It's a good idea to use git's standards for message length, such as 50 characters on the message and 72 on the description. Many IDEs and editors may already do that but it's good to specify.
- I like the part on `Co-authored-by: ...`, please keep it, but could be shorter too. Also, change `both` to something more general.

As for the example, let's get the issue number out of there, something like

```raw
CONTRIBUTING: Fix authorship info

Authorship info should also include co-authors, as those have also helped code
a certain contribution. As git doesn't account for possible co-authorship,
let's use commit tags.
```

Now, something a little more opinionated: I really like using commit prefixes to help figure out what a specific change dealt with before I even look at `--name-stat` or the rest of the message. But again, using `--name-stat` pretty much solves this issue... But it would be just like the example I gave (instead of e.g. "Fix authorship info in contribution guide" (so you see this information would probably always be present one way or another...).

### Pull Requests Policy

> Pull requests should be made to the main branch. The pull request's content must include a clear description of what was done.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull requests should be made to the main branch. The pull request's description must include a clear description of what was done.
```

Please follow to the [Pull Request Template](https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/.github/pull_request_template.md).

##### Work in Progress

> If there is a need to update the *main* branch before completing the issue, the pull request name must contain `WIP:<X_branch_name>` so that the branch is not deleted.

Reviewer: Actually, I don't think I get this one, could you clarify?

##### Code Review

> One or more team members who did not participate in the modifications must conduct the code review. After the code review approval by the team members, it is possible to accept the PullRequest.

Reviewer: Again, specific info to use, you could just say that "there must be always two reviewers" but again, github UI shows this info now.

### Do you want to say hello to us?

> If you have any question, please send an email to isaque.alves@usp.br

Reviewer: I wouldn't list my email in here, maybe create another discussion at https://github.com/SuperLesson/SuperLesson/discussions
